 
Division of Zoning and Development Review 
City of Pittsburgh, Department of City Planning 
412 Boulevard of the Allies, Second Floor 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 
ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT 
 
 
The Zoning Board of Adjustment reserves the right to supplement the decision with Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law. 
 
Date of Hearing:    May 21, 2026 
Date of Decision:    July 6, 2026 
 
Zone Case:     19 of 2026  
Address:     Buena Vista Street 
Lot and Block:    23-A-192, 196, 213, 23-E-12  
Zoning Districts:    H  
Neighborhood:    Perry South  
Request:     BDA-2025-12227  
Application:    Construction of 18 single Unit attached houses  
Variance Section 911.02 
 
Section 905.02.C 
Unlisted use similar to multi-
unit residential proposed 
3-story maximum height 
permitted; 4 stories requested 
 
Appearances: 
 
 Applicant: Tom Ayoob, Nathan Hart, John Costello, Kelly Harrington  
 
 In Support: Rhonda Strozier, Cali Disaeato 
 
 Observing: Ian Alden Russell 
 
Findings of Fact: 
1. The Subject Property is comprised of five lots, identified as Parcels Nos. 23-A-192, 
23-A-196, 23-A-213 and 23-E-12, in an H (Hillside) District in Perry South. 
2. The combination of the 5 parcels creates an irregular shape, and the combined area 
of the parcels is approximately 104,000 sf. 
3. The site has frontages on Buena Vista Street and O’Hern Street.   The rear of the 
site abuts parcels on Perrysville Avenue that are at a higher elevation. 
4. The site is located on a densely wooded hillside that has upward slopes from O’Hern 
Street and Buena Vista Street.  The grade in several areas of the site exceeds 50%. At the middle 
of the site is a generally flat plateau. 
 
2 
 
5. Access to the site is from a curb cut on Buena Vista Street. 
6. The only structure currently on the site is a single-family house on Parcel No. 23-A-
196. 
7. The Applicant proposes to consolidate the lots, to demolish the existing house, and 
to construct 18 attached townhouse units on the central plateau area of the site. 
8. The proposed height for each of the structures would be 39’-4”/4-stories. 
9. The area of disturbance for the proposed development would be less than 50% of 
the 104,000 sf site.  
10. A private drive, with access from the existing curb cut on Buena Vista Street, would 
be located at the rear of the 18 units, with a cul-de-sac at the end. 
11. The ground floor of each of the townhouse structures would be used for a first-floor 
integral garage that would have access from the private drive. 
12. As proposed, all of the 18 townhouses would be on the single consolidated lot.  Each 
unit would be sold individually and would be subject to a condominium agreement. The owners of 
the units would collectively manage the private drive and other shared amenities. 
13. Because the development contemplates the location of all of the 18 units on the 
single consolidated parcel, the Zoning Administrator determined that the proposed use would be 
a use that is “unlisted” in the Code but that would have characteristics that are most similar to the 
multi-unit residential use, as defined in the Code. 
14. The Applicant explained that the shape and topography of the Subject Property are 
unique conditions that preclude subdivision of the site into separate lots that would accommodate 
the number of units proposed. 
15. The Applicant submitted a letter from Gateway Engineers which asserts that the 
proposed development complies with the use stand ards for the single-unit attached residential  
use, as permitted in H Districts. 
16. The Applicant explained that the fourth story  proposed for all of the structures  is 
intended to accommodate the integral garage for each unit and to allow for three stories of living 
space above the ground-floor garage. The height of the structures would not exceed 40’. 
17. The Applicant asserted that the wooded hillside would generally screen the 
development on the site, and presented renderings to demonstrate that the height of th e 
structures would not have any significant visual impacts on the surrounding neighborhood. 
18. Rhonda Strozier and Cali Disaeato, on behalf of the Perry Hilltop Citizens Council, 
submitted a letter of support for the request , subject to several conditions.   The requested 
conditions include restoration of Buena Vista Street, and transparency/communications 
requirements regarding site development and construction management.  The Applicant does not 
own or control Buena Vista Street but  indicated an intent to work with the community regarding 
its repair and improvement.  The Applicant also intends to  provide regular communications 
regarding the development and construction process.  
 
3 
 
19. Ian Alden Russell, the owner of the property at 1728 Buena Vista Street, appeared 
at the hearing and asserted that the development would be visible from his property. 
Conclusions of Law: 
1. Section 911.02 defines “Single Unit Attached Residential” as “the use of a zoning 
lot for one dwelling unit that is attached to one or more dwelling units by a party wall or separate 
abutting wall and that is located on its own separate lot.” 
2. Section 911.02 defines “Multi-Unit Residential” as “the use of a zoning lot for four 
or more dwelling units that are contained within a single building.” 
3. The Single Unit Attached Residential use is permitted in H Districts as a special 
exception and the Multi Unit Residential use is not permitted in H Districts. 
4. Pursuant to Section 911.04.A.69, for the special exception for single-unit 
residential uses in H Districts, the Board is to consider whether the residential units are to be 
built on “buildable land,” the submission of a soils report, use of vegetation to present erosion, 
access to the site and availability of infrastructure. 
5. The site development standards for H Districts in Section 905.02.C include the 
40’/not to exceed 3 stories height limitations and a 50% maximum area of disturbance.   
6. The development, as proposed, would create 18 separate structures that would be 
located on a single zoning lot, which does not comply with the definition of single unit attached 
residential or multi-unit residential. 
7. Section 911.03.A authorizes the Zoning Administrator to determine the 
classification of a new or unlisted use and to determine which existing land use category most 
closely fits the new or unlisted use, based on the Code’s definitions and the similarity of the use 
in question to the defined land use categories. 
8. The Board agrees with the Zoning Administrator that the proposed use has 
characteristics consistent with both the single-unit attached and multi-unit residential uses.  
Because the multi-unit residential use is not permitted in H Districts, the Board considers the 
use variances standards in Section 922.09.E. 
9. The 104,000 sf consolidated site has a unique shape and topography that limit its 
viable use for the uses permitted in H Districts.  Use of the buildable plateau area of the site for 
18 townhouse structures would allow for reasonable development without significant impacts on 
the surrounding area.  The development would have only one curb cut on Buena Vista Street 
and each of the units will have an integral parking garage.  Because of the topography of the 
site, it will have limited visual impacts on the surrounding area. 
10. Although the Applicant proposes to include a fourth story, to allow for a ground 
floor garage for each unit, the height of each of the structures will be within the Code’s 40’ 
height limitation.  The fourth story for the units will thus have a limited impact on the surrounding 
area. 
 
4 
 
11. Consistent with the evidence and testimony presented, and the applicable legal 
standards governing variances, the Board concludes that approval of the request is appropriate, 
subject to the conditions set forth in the decision. 
Decision: The Applicant’s request for variances from Sections 911.02 and 905.02.C to 
allow for the construction of 18 four-story townhouse structures on the 
Subject Property is hereby APPROVED, subject to the conditions that the 
Applicant continues to work with the community regarding efforts to repair and 
improve Buena Vista Street and provides Perry Hilltop Citizens Council with 
regular updates regarding the development and construction process. 
 
s/Alice B. Mitinger 
Alice B. Mitinger, Chair 
 
s/Lashawn Burton-Faulk                         s/ John J. Richardson 
LaShawn Burton-Faulk                        John J. Richardson 
Note: Decision issued with electronic signatures, with the Board members’ review and approval. 