
Division of Zoning and Development Review
City of Pittsburgh, Department of City Planning
412 Boulevard of the Allies, Second Floor
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219
ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT


The Zoning Board of Adjustment reserves the right to supplement the decision with Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law.

Date of Hearing:    March 12, 2026
Date of Decision:    April 25, 2026

Zone Case:     3 of 2026
Address:     East Jefferson Street
Lot and Block:    23-F-131
Zoning Districts:    R1A-VH
Ward:     1
Neighborhood:    Central Northside
Request:     House
Application:    BDA-2025-01446
Variance

Protest Appeal
Section 903.03.E

Sections 923.02.B and D
15’ rear setback required; 8’
requested for the primary
structure
Appeal of Administrator
Exception approving a deck
in interior side setback
pursuant to Sections
922.08.C and 925.06.G

Appearances:

 Applicant: Jeff Dewey

 Appellant: Dylan Trombetta

Findings of Fact:
1. The Subject Property i s Parcel No. 23 -F-131 on East Jefferson Street in an R1A -
VH (Residential One Unit Attached Very High Density) District in the Central Northside
neighborhood.
2. The grade of the Subject Property has a downward slope from East Jefferson Street
towards the rear property line of the site and properties on Carrington Street, at a lower elevation.
3. The parcel is currently vacant.   A 1910 Sanborn Fire Insurance map depicts a
structure on the Subject Property with limited setbacks.

2

4. The Subject Property has a slightly irregular shape.  It has 30’ of frontage on E ast
Jefferson Street but the half of the parcel that is adjacent to the parcel at 229 East Jefferson Street
has a length of 42’, and the half that is adjacent to the vacant Parcel No. 23-F-130 has a length
of 40’.
5. The 229 East Jefferson Street parcel has a panhandle shape and the 6’-8”-wide
panhandle strip extends between the irregular rear property line of the Subject Property and the
rear property lines of parcels on Carrington Street.  Parcel No. 23-F-130 extends from Carrington
Street to East Jefferson Street.
6. Jeff Dewey, the owner of the Subject Property and the Applicant here, proposes to
construct a 3-story house on the Subject Property .  As proposed, the pri mary structure would
extend to the front property line on Jefferson Street with a 0’ setback, and would be set back  3’
from both interior side property lines.  Because of the irregular rear property line, the setback from
the rear property line, along the panhandle strip, would range from 8’ to 10’.
7. The plans for the house on the Subject Property  include accessory decks on the
second and third floors and on the rooftop.  The 6’ by 8’ (48 sf) deck on  the second floor and the
11’ by 8’ (88 sf) deck on the third floor would be substantially within the rear corner of the primary
structure, on the Parcel No. 23 -F-130 side, with 3’ setbacks on that interior side, in line with the
house.  Both the second and third floor decks would extend only 2’ from the primary structure,
with 6’ rear setbacks. Both the second floor deck and the third floor deck would be set back 19’
from the interior side of the 229 East Jefferson Street property.
8.  As proposed, the 17’ by 15’ (255 sf) rooftop deck would  be set back 3’ from the
interior side shared with the 229 East Jefferson Street property line and 12’ from the Parcel No.
23-F-130 property line.  Like the primary structure, the rear setback for the rooftop deck would be
at least 8’.
9. Because all of the decks would be set back more than 5’ from the rear property line,
as shared with the panhandle portion of the 229 East Jefferson Street parcel , the decks would
comply with the rear setback requirement for accessory structures.
10. On January 29, 2026, the Zoning Administrator approved  an Administrator’s
Exception to allow all three decks within the interior side setbacks.  The second and third floor
decks would have 3’ setbacks, instead of 5’ setbacks, on the Parcel No. 23 -F-130 side; and the
rooftop deck would have a 3’ setback, instead of a 5’ setback, on the 229 East Jefferson Street
side.
11. Dylan and Nolan Trombetta, the owners of the 229 East Jefferson Street parcel,
appealed the approval of the Administrator’s Exception for the reduced setbacks for the decks.
Benjamin Perez, the owner of Parcel No. 23-F-130, joined the appeal.
12.   Mr. Dewey seeks a variance to allow an 8’ rear setback for the primary structure
and supports the approval of the Administrator’s Exception for the decks.
13. Mr. Dewey asserted that the panhandle strip at the rear, the sloping topography and
the shape of th e property are unique conditions which create a hardship that prevents strict
compliance with the setback requirement for a residential structure on the site.  He also provided
evidence that the rear of the proposed structure would be in line with the rear of the house on the

3

229 East Jefferson Street parcel and that the reduced rear setback would be consistent with other
houses on East Jefferson Street.
14. With respect to the decks, Mr. Dewey maintained that the decks would not have a
significant impact on su rrounding properties because , for all three decks,  the 3’ interior side
setback on one side of each deck, which the Zoning Administrator approved, would be the same
as the setbacks for the primary structure and would have no greater impact  on the adjacent
parcels than the primary structure.
15. Dylan Trombetta appeared at the hearing for the Appellants and opposed the
request for a variance from the rear setback requirement and the approval of the Administrator’s
Exception.  He asserted generally that the proposed development of the Subject Property would
have detrimental impacts on his property.   The Appellants  also asserted that the proposed
reduction in the setbacks for the accessory structures should have been evaluated under the
variance standards and not as an Administrator’s Exception.
Conclusions of Law:
1. Section 903.03.E sets forth the site development standards for primary structures
in R1A-VH Districts, including minimum 15’ rear and 5’ interior side setback requirements.
Pursuant to the contextual side setback provisions in Section 925.06.C, the interior side
setbacks for primary structures can be reduced to 3’, by right and without a variance.
2. Pursuant to Section 912.04, accessory structures are required to comply with the
setback requirements that apply to primary structures.  The contextual reduction that the Code
permits for primary structures does not apply to accessory structures.
3. Accessory structures are not subject to the rear setback requirement for primary
structures.  Pursuant to Section 912.04.B, the minimum rear setback required for an accessory
structure is 5’.
4. Pursuant to Section 925.06.G, a variety of accessory structures, including decks,
swimming pools, garages, storage sheds, HVAC units and dumpsters, may be permitted within
a required side yard as an Administrator’s Exception.  Section 925.06.G.2 sets forth the
standards that the Zoning Administrator is to consider with respect to a request to allow an
accessory structure within a side setback, including whether the proposed construction would
place an accessory structure closer to a neighboring property line than the permitted building
line of a primary structure and whether the location of the accessory structure would have
detrimental impacts on the adjacent properties.
5. The Code delineates which deviations from the setback requirements are within
the Board’s discretion and authority to consider under the variance standards; and which are
within the Zoning Administrator’s discretion and authority to consider under the standards set
forth in the Code.  Because the impacts of accessory structures are more limited than those of
primary structures, the Code entrusts the Zoning Administrator to review the location of
accessory structures within interior side setbacks, under the standards in Section 925.06.G.
6. Under Code Sections 923.02.B and 923.02.D, the Board is authorized to approve
variances and to hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that a zoning approval was issued
in error.  The Board may reverse or modify a challenged zoning approval as appropriate.

4

7. The variance standards in Section 922.09.E require the Board to consider any
unique features or conditions of the property that prevent strict compliance with the Code’s
requirements.  Any variance requested is to be the minimum that would afford relief and is not to
have any significant impacts on the surrounding area.  See Marshall v. City of Philadelphia and
Zoning Bd. of Adj., 97 A.3d 323, 329 (Pa. 2014); Hertzberg v. Zoning Board of Adj. of the City of
Pittsburgh, 721 A.2d 43 (Pa. 1998), citing Allegheny West Civic Council v. Zoning Bd. of Adj. of
the City of Pittsburgh, 689 A.2d 225 (Pa. 1997).
8. In Hertzberg, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court recognized that a less restrictive
standard is appropriate for dimensional variances, which require only for a reasonable
adjustment of the zoning regulations to accommodate a use of property that is permitted.
Hertzberg, 721 A.2d at 47-48.
9. The Applicant seeks a dimensional variance to allow a reduced rear setback for
the primary structure.  As proposed, the rear setback from the panhandle strip of the 229 East
Jefferson Street parcel would range from 8’ to 10’.  The proposed decks would all comply with
the 5’ rear setback requirement for accessory structures in Section 912.04.B.
10. The Applicant supports the January 29, 2026 Administrator’s Exception, which
would allow each of the three decks to extend into one of the 5’ interior side setbacks, as
required for accessory structures under Sections 903.03.E and 912.04.  All of the 3’ interior side
setbacks proposed would be in line with the permitted 3’ interior side setbacks of the primary
structure.
11. The Appellants oppose the Applicant’s request for a variance from the rear
setback requirement for the primary structure and asks the Board to determine that the January
29, 2026 Administrator’s Exception to allow the decks in the interior side setbacks was issued in
error.  The Appellants maintain that the Administrator’s Exception process did not allow for
sufficient review of the proposed interior side setbacks for the accessory decks.
12. The Applicant offered sufficient credible evidence of the unique conditions of the
Subject Property, including the panhandle strip at the rear, the sloping topography and the
shape of the property and the hardship associated with those conditions.  The reduced rear
setback proposed for the primary structure would allow the new structure to be in line with the
structure on the 229 East Jefferson Street property.  Because of the width of the panhandle strip
and the change in grade, the reduced rear setback would not have any significant impact on the
Carrington Street parcels.  The Board thus concludes that the approval of a dimensional
variance to allow a reduced rear setback for the primary structure is appropriate.
13. The Appellants ask the Board to determine that the Zoning Administrator erred in
approving an Administrator’s Exception to allow each of the three decks to be set back 3’ from
an interior side property line, in line with the 3’ setbacks for the primary structure, and thus to
extend, by 2’, into the 5’ setback that the Code requires for accessory structures.  The
Appellants seem to argue that the impact of the decks would be so significant as to warrant the
Board’s review as variances, instead of the Zoning Administrator’s review as the Code requires.
The appeal effectively requires the Board to review the same concerns that the Zoning
Administrator would have considered with regard to the potential impact of the decks on the
adjacent parcels.

5

14. For the second and third floor decks, on the Parcel No. 23-F-130 side, the decks
would essentially be tucked into the rear corner of the primary structure.  If designed as an
indoor part of the primary structure and not as open accessory decks, the 3’ setbacks proposed
would be permitted by right.  For the rooftop deck, the 3’ setback on the 229 East Jefferson
Street side would be in line with the primary structure and the 2’ incursion into the setback would
have no greater impact on the adjacent parcel than the primary structure.
15. Under these circumstances and the standards in Code Section 925.06.G that the
Zoning Administrator considered, the accessory decks would not place the accessory decks
closer to a neighboring property line than the permitted building line of the primary structure and
would not have any detrimental impacts on the adjacent properties.  The Board agrees that the
Zoning Administrator properly and reasonably approved the Administrator’s Exception for all of
the decks.
16. Were the Board to review the setbacks of the proposed decks under the standards
and law relating to dimensional variances, it would reach the same conclusion and would grant
dimensional variances for the decks.
Decision: The Applicant’s request for a variance from Section 903.03.E to allow the
construction of a house with a reduced rear setback is hereby APPROVED. The
Appellants’ appeal of the Administrator’s Exception to reduce the required
interior side setback for the three decks is hereby DENIED.

s/Alice B. Mitinger
Alice B. Mitinger, Chair

s/Lashawn Burton-Faulk                         s/ John J. Richardson
LaShawn Burton-Faulk                        John J. Richardson
Note: Decision issued with electronic signatures, with the Board members’ review and approval.