
Division of Zoning and Development Review
City of Pittsburgh, Department of City Planning
412 Boulevard of the Allies, Second Floor
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219
ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT


The Zoning Board of Adjustment reserves the right to supplement the decision with Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law.

Date of Hearing:    May 21, 2026
Date of Decision:    June 18, 2026

Zone Case:     58 of 2026
Address:     Kendall Street
Lot and Block:    81-A-152
Zoning Districts:    H
Neighborhood:    Upper Lawrenceville
Request:     Construction of two-unit residence
Application:    BDA-2025-09345
Variance Section 911.02 Two-unit residential use
prohibited in H District

Appearances:

 Applicant: Ryan Wotus, Jason Roth

 Opposed: Jonathan Barnes, Jack Sundo, Diane Difranco, Christopher Hohman

Findings of Fact:
1. The Subject Property , Parcel No. 81 -A-152, is an unaddressed parcel on Kendall
Street, in an H (Hillside) District in Upper Lawrenceville.
2. The dimensions of the parcel are 20’ by 100’ (2,000 sf) and it is currently vacant.
3. The parcel is relatively flat but has some grade changes from interior side to interior
side, along Kendall Street and from the front property line towards the rear.
4. The single-family house  that had been located  on the Subject Property was
demolished in 2021.  A portion of a foundation wall from that structure remains along the property
line shared with the parcel at 518 Kendall Street.  A retaining wall is along the property line shared
with 604 Kendall Street.
5. The Applicant asserted that the foundation wall cannot be removed without
impacting the structural integrity of the house on the neighboring parcel.
6. The Applicant proposes to build a structure on the parcel for use for two residential
units.   As proposed, the structure would be set back 17’-7” from the front property line on Kendall

2

Street; and 13’-8” from the rear property line.  It would extend to both interior side property lines,
with 0’ setbacks.
7. The Applicant indicated that the house would be constructed on concrete piers and
asserted that the piers  would be necessary because of the site’s topography and the existing
foundation wall.
8. The Applicant did not provide a calculation of the area of disturbance, but asserted
that it would be less than 50% because the house would be constructed on piers.
9. As proposed, two parking spaces would be provided underneath the house , with
access from a curb cut on Kendall Street.
10. The Applicant generally asserted that it would not be financially feasible to construct
a structure for a single -family use on the Subject Property, but did not provide any specific
evidence to support that claim.
11. The Applicant acknowledged that the other parcels on Kendall Street are used for
single-family houses.  The Applicant provided photographs of several structures on 57th Street,
within the same H District and asserted that they are used for two residential units. However, the
Applicant did not demonstrate that any of the identified structures have a Certificate of Occupancy
that would permit their use for two residential units.
12. Jason Roth, a registered architect, appeared on behalf of the Appli cant to explain
that he had been involved in plans to redevelop the site in 2021 for a single unit house .  He
asserted that the previous owner had abandoned the project because of the site conditions and
expenses associated with constructing a foundation.
13. Following the hearing, the Applicant submitted a letter from Pennsylvania Soil and
Rock Incorporated which states that the site is relatively flat and would not be prone to landslides
or mine subsidence and recommends a soil sample to determ ine the bearing capacity of the
foundation soil.
14. Jonathan Barnes, a resident of the 518 Kendall Street parcel; Jack Sundo, owner of
the property at 611 Kendall Street ; and  Diane Difranco, a former resident of Kendall Street,
appeared at the hearing to oppose the request. The neighbors had concerns about the proposed
density, and the impact of additional traffic on Kendall Street, which is a steep, narrow and poorly
maintained cobblestone street.
15. Christopher Homan, a construction supervisor with M.M. M arra Construction,
appeared at the hearing on behalf of Jonathan Barnes and offered credible testimony that it would
be feasible to construct a single-family house on the Subject Property.
16. Lawrenceville Corporation and Lawrenceville United submitted a letter to the Board
which states that the groups did not take a position on the request because of the scale of the
project.



3

Conclusions of Law:
1. Pursuant to Section 911.02, two-unit residential uses are not permitted in H
Districts.
2. Section 922.09 of the Code sets forth the familiar standards for a variance, which
the Pennsylvania Supreme Court has summarized as including: (1) whether unique
circumstances or conditions of a property would result in in an unnecessary hardship for
development; (2) whether the property can be developed in strict conformity with the provisions
of the Code; (3) whether the proposed variance would have an adverse effect on the public
welfare; and (4) whether the proposed variance is the minimum variance that would afford relief
with the least modification possible.  Marshall v. City of Philadelphia and Zoning Bd. of Adj., 97
A.3d 323, 329 (Pa. 2014); see also Paganico v. Zoning Hearing Bd. of Penn Hills, 227 A.3d 949
(Pa. Commw. Ct. 2020), quoting Marshall.
3. Because a zoning ordinance is legislation that a municipality’s governing body
adopts, the request for a variance is “an exception to the otherwise expressed will of the citizens
regarding the use of property in certain neighborhoods of the community.”  Metal Green Inc. v.
City of Philadelphia, 266 A.3d 495, 511 (Pa. 2021).  Any application for a variance is, in
essence, a request to do something that does not comply with the zoning ordinance
requirements.
4. In discussing the “unnecessary hardship” standard, Pennsylvania courts have held
that the applicant for a use variance is not required to demonstrate that a property would be
“valueless” without a variance and that “multiple factors can be taken into account when
assessing whether unnecessary hardship has been established.”  Marshall, 97 A.3d at 330;
Paganico, 227 A.3d 949, quoting Marshall.  An unnecessary hardship can be established with
evidence that: “(1) the physical features of the property are such that it cannot be used for a
permitted purpose; or (2) the property can be conformed for a permitted use only at a prohibitive
expense; or (3) the property has no value for any purpose permitted by the zoning ordinance.”
Marshall, 97 A.3d at 329-30, quoting Hertzberg, 721 A.2d at 47 (citing Allegheny West Civic
Council, Inc., 689 A.2d 225, 227-28 (Pa. 1997)).
5. However, an assertion that property would have more value but for the Code’s
requirements does not support a claim of an “unnecessary hardship.”  A variance cannot be
granted simply because the zoning ordinance “deprives the landowner of the most lucrative and
profitable uses.”  Wilson v. Plumstead Twp. Zoning Hearing Bd., 936 A.2d 1061, 1070 (Pa.
2007), citing Laurel Point Assoc. v. Susquehanna Twp. Zoning Hearing Bd., 887 A.2d 796, 803
(Pa. Commw. Ct. 2005), alloc. denied 903 A.2d 1235 (Pa. 2006); Valley View Civic Ass’n v.
Zoning Bd. of Adj., 462 A.2d 637, 640 (Pa. 1983) (citations omitted) (“mere evidence that the
zoned use is less financially rewarding than the proposed use is insufficient to justify a
variance”); see also Lamar Advantage GP Co. v. Zoning Hearing Bd. of Adj. of City of
Pittsburgh, 997 A.2d 423, 445–46 (Pa. Commw. Ct. 2010); Lawrenceville Stakeholders v. City of
Pittsburgh Zoning Bd. of Adj., 247 A.3d 465, 477 (Pa. Commw. Ct. 2021).
6. It is the applicant’s burden to demonstrate that a requested variance satisfies the
applicable review criteria.
7. The Applicant here seeks a use variance to allow a two-unit residential use on
property in an H District, where two-unit residential uses are not permitted.

4

8. The Applicant presented evidence of the physical conditions of the parcel, which
include grade changes and the foundation wall that remains from a demolished single-family
structure on the property.  Although the foundation wall may be a feature that is unique to the
Subject Property, the terrain is consistent with other parcels in H (Hillside) Districts.
9. The Applicant did not provide substantial or credible evidence that the physical
conditions have the effect of preventing use of the property for a permitted purpose.  The
Subject Property was previously used for a single-family house and all of the other parcels on
the same block of Kendall Street are used for single-family houses.  A single-family use might
be less financially rewarding than the proposed two-unit residential structure but the Applicant
did not demonstrate that the parcel could not be used for a single-family house.
10. The proposed two-unit use also would not be consistent with the character of the
neighborhood.
11. Consistent with the evidence and testimony presented, and the applicable legal
standards governing use variances, the Board concludes that denial of the request is
appropriate.
Decision: The Applicant’s request for a variance from Section 911.02 to permit the a two-
unit residential use on the Subject Property is hereby DENIED.

s/ Alice Mitinger
Alice B. Mitinger, Chair

s/Lashawn Burton-Faulk                         s/ John J. Richardson
LaShawn Burton-Faulk                        John J. Richardson
Note: Decision issued with electronic signatures, with the Board members’ review and approval.